hello and welcome to microsurgical endo
educational institute
my name is Latrell and they say and
today I'd like to share with you a
simple and efficient method I have
developed for post preparation using the
end of sequence instrumentation and
observation system this is a very simple
technique that also allows cementation
of the post immediately after the root
canal before we discuss this acting
however I would like to emphasize a few
points first it is important to remember
that a post in core should never be
placed immediately after the root canal
if there is any doubt about the
thoroughness of the cleaning shaping and
operation or discovery of all existing
canals if there are doubts about
achieving length through thorough
cleaning and disinfection for finding
all canals including ambi twos I highly
recommend waiting and monitoring instead
of immediate restoration of the tooth
second it is important to realize that
the function of the post of a post is
merely to retain the core the post does
not strengthen the tooth and ubiquitous
use of posts is remnant of the
non-adhesive days of Dentistry today
where bond strengths surpass the
cohesive strength of dentin there seemed
to be little logic for the use of posts
especially in molars where bonded cores
appear adequately retentive this is why
the end of sequence post system is
designed more like an inter radicular
core build up with a rebar than a true
post system and it when its traditional
sense now the fiber post is simply used
to carry the core material into the
canal and unlike metallic posts does not
predispose the tooth to fracture so the
system does not have post rails and each
fiber post simply matches the taper of
an end of sequence rotary file whether
it's all six or oh for now as a result
and no canal preparation is needed only
removal of the gutta-percha to required
length and then cementation of the
corresponding
host the technique I will talk about is
based on this very simple concept of how
can we place it got aperture cone to a
predetermined length without his handle
and use the remaining empty space
coronal to it as post base now this is
easily achievable using the end of
sequence operation system as the
gutta-percha master cone is a higher
molecular density in molecular weight
and therefore stiffer so it doesn't
distort as easily as other cones
furthermore the evolution in one cone
sealer technology and operation using
the end of sequence bio ceramic sealer
has suddenly made this technique
possible and predictable in summary this
technique involves fitting a master cone
for the canal that will be that will get
the posts essentially and then cutting
the tip of the master cone to the length
that will remain in the canal after the
post is cemented and then cementing only
that segments of the gutta-percha cone
or without the handle and a one cone
technique now the remaining space is
then cleaned off of sealer and then used
as post base let's look at this in more
detail and demonstrate it with an
example here we have a canine tooth that
has been prepared to an apical side of a
3504 mat in the sequence file and in a
crown down fashion to a final length of
about twenty three and a half million